# [Course: Advanced Computational Methods in Drug Discovery by Jespers Willem](https://studiegids.universiteitleiden.nl/en/courses/115512/advanced-computational-methods-in-drug-discovery-ai-and-physics-based-simulations) 
# Report for the course Advanced Computational Methods in Drug Discovery. 
Target:Thrombin

This repositry contains the whole project of the programming assignment for the [Advanced Computational Methods in Drug Discovery course](https://studiegids.universiteitleiden.nl/en/courses/115512/advanced-computational-methods-in-drug-discovery-ai-and-physics-based-simulations) taught by Assistant Professor Jespers Willem. The contibutors of the project is Pantelis Maragkoudakis Panagiotis Dimitropoulos and Ehsan Aslam.
Computer-aided drug design (CADD) comprises a broad range of theoretical and computational approaches that are part of modern drug discovery. CADD methods have made key contributions to the development of drugs that are in clinical use or in clinical trials. Such methods have emerged and evolved along with experimental approaches used in drug design. In this project  we will use some of the main advances in the field, such as Machine Learning prediction models, Docking, Interaction Fingerprints and generation of a Database of all the known inhibitors for the given target. The main aim of the project is to generate new potential selective inhibitors for the human Thrombin, by taking into consideration all the output of the Machine Learning Models and the steps of the Drug Discovery process. Our goal is to generate a set of ligands that are orientated in the binding pocket identical or even better compared with well known already synthesized in the lab compounds. Furthermore, we focus not only on the scores but also on the retrosynthesis path of the compounds. Our number one priority is to generate compounds that can be actually made in the wet lab.

For this project we used:
- The well known [Jupyter Notebook](http://jupyter-notebook-beginner-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/what_is_jupyter.html), which provides an intuitive flow.
- A good amount of the scripts were obtained by the [TeachOpenCADD](https://github.com/volkamerlab/teachopencadd),an open source programming packages for cheminformatics and structural bioinformatics are powerful tools to build modular, reproducible, and reusable pipelines for computer-aided drug design (CADD). Programming language `python`.
- We also used scripts for the CBR-teaching, an environment that was made by Willem Jespers for the aim of this course. Programming language `python`.
- For the Interaction Fingerprints we use the [Open Drug Discovery Toolkit](https://github.com/oddt/oddt),a  modular and comprehensive toolkit for use in cheminformatics, molecular modeling etc. ODDT is written in `python`, and make extensive use of Numpy/Scipy
- The re-written code is now embedded within the Jupyter Notebook . Especially we used the Noteable environment.
